Escrow FAQs
Understanding Your Shortage 

What is a shortage, and why might I have one? 
Your escrow account exists to pay escrowed items (taxes, insurance, mortgage insurance, etc.) as they come due. Shortages are commonly caused by increases in taxes or insurance, changing your insurance carrier off-cycle, or underestimated taxes when you closed your loan. A regular analysis of the escrow account is required to ensure that enough funds are available to pay these expenses as they come due. A shortage exists if the analysis shows that the minimum required balance falls below the amount required to make the projected payments of escrowed expenses. 

Do I need to do anything if I have a bill pay service through my bank? 
You will need to contact your bank and change your monthly bill pay amount to your new monthly mortgage payment amount, based on the effective date. 

Do I need to do anything if I'm enrolled in automatic payments with my servicer?
No action is needed if you have a shortage and want us to spread that amount over the next 12 months. We'll automatically adjust your monthly payment amount for you. If you'd like to voluntarily pay your shortage in a lump sum, instead, see below for our payment options available to you.
 
Am I able to pay my shortage in a lump sum? 
Yes. You may pay your shortage in full by submitting a payment to us. Please note that you are not required to pay your shortage in a lump sum. If you choose to pay your shortage in a lump sum, your monthly mortgage payment may still increase due to changes in your taxes and/or insurance.
Making a payment is easy on your mobile app and website, or you can contact one of our Customer Care representatives and make a payment right over the phone. 

Can I prepay my escrow amount so my payment does not change? 
No. Taxes and insurance costs routinely change. The escrow portion of your monthly payment is collected so disbursements can be made when they’re due – changes to the escrowed expenses will result in a change in your mortgage payment. While making supplemental payments toward your escrow may reduce or eliminate on escrow shortage, the escrow portion of your monthly payment is calculated annually in accordance with applicable law. 

Can I pay an escrow shortage in a lump sum if my loan is 30 or more days delinquent? 
Payments on loans that are 30 or more days past due will first be credited toward any past-due amount owed before any funds are applied toward an escrow shortage. 

Can I pay some of my shortage? 
Yes. However, if you do elect to pay some of your shortage, please note that your monthly payment will not be reduced unless the entire shortage is paid in full.




